All right.
So now you know how to work with buttons and to run some code when that button is clicked.
We're going to allow the user to enter some data and then we're going to get that data in our code and
do something with it.
In this case display it in the locks.
So we'll start by adding in our text field.
So as we saw before we can have various different types of textfield which will bring up different keyboards
depending on the type of text that we're expecting in that text field.
But I'll just go for a plain text so drag that in.
I'm going to send it again and put it.
Oh that's gopher slap bang in the middle of the screen and you can see by default it's pretty NEVER
which isn't going to be great for the user entering data.
And that's because we've set the default which is set to wrap the content.
And because it's a textfield it doesn't have any content yet.
So let's change the width to fill parent.
And now it all looks good.
There is one property that I'd like to show you for text fields that's pretty useful.
And that's the hint just here.
And that's where we can do something like
maybe use the text enter your name and then see how that interact.
You can see it displays as a hint for the user.
But the great thing is when the user taps on the text field then that enter your name text will disappear.
And they'll be able to just enter their name.
They would have to manually delete the text which is already there which would be a pretty bad user
experience.
So let's just start typing and you can see that text disappears and actually if we get rid of that then
the hint comes back again.
So that's working well as you can see however on my particular device here.
The center of the screen is where the button is.
So that's a warning to you that allow it can look perfectly good on the simulator it won't necessarily
look good on the user's device.
So let's change our text field so that it's actually aligned beneath the button and we can do that just
by dragging it around and so now it's aligned below the bottom rather than
behind the button or center.
And you can see that that now looks a lot better.
Great.
So now what we want to do is when the button is pressed.
Rather than just saying button pressed in the lugs it also gives us the content of whatever the user
has entered there.
And that will allow us to do all sorts of powerful things like asking for a username and password asking
for some content to post a tweet or send an email or anything you might do to type in to your phone.
So just before we write that code we're going to need to give the text field an ID.
So I got that just by double clicking on it to double click on the text field and you can see it's already
got a default ID of edits text which is the official name for a text filled with an Android development.
I'm going to call it my textfield just to get something a little bit unique in there but you can call
it whatever you like as long as it has an ID and that saved great.
So now
within our click function code we need to get the contents of that text field and we do that by essentially
creating a variable that represents that text field and allows us to get the content from it.
So as you noticed a moment ago the text field is of a type of edit text.
So we're going to create an edit text variable using old enter again to add the added text class and
just like we created a view with a capital V here.
We're creating an edit text with a capital E at the beginning there.
And I'm going to call it my text field.
The variable i used here doesn't have to be the same as the one that I used for the ID but it kind of
makes sense to keep those matching up.
And then we're going to set this equal to.
And now we want to find that textfield.
So we use find view by ID but just press enter there to use the auto product to get that method to find
view by id and then all four resources dot ID to get a list of all of the Ids.
And then I called it my textfield so that then will search through all the IDs and find the one with
an ID of my text field.
So we're almost there but you can see we've got an error and that's because this find the view by id
finds a view but we don't want to view.
We want an edit text so we have to convert this view into an edit text and we do that by putting edit
text in brackets before our find view by id command.
So let's just summarize what's going on there again.
We're creating an edit text variable using that first command.
And it's called My text field and then we're using the Find view by id method to find our view to find
our text field.
And we're finding it by its ID using resources or our DOT ID dot and then the ID that we set which was
my text field.
And then finally we're converting that from a view to an edit text by putting edit text in parentheses
before the command.
Phew.
So that was quite a lot of them as always we're diving quite deep quite quickly here.
But feel free to go back and listen to that explanation again.
But at the same time also don't worry too much if everything is not completely clear.
We will be looking at this and Java in general in much more detail in the next section.
So I'm now going to change the Loek command to Loga and I'll leave it as info.
But this time I want to get the contents of the edit text of the text field.
So instead of having that string saying button pressed I'm going to use my text field dot and then I
want to get the text from that text field.
So I use the command get text and last of all I want to convert that to a string so that I can display
it in the logs.
A string is just a collection of characters just like info or the button pressed that we had before.
So that's in we're now creating a variable to link to our added text using find view by id and then
we're logging under the info tag.
My text field get text and 2 strings so we're accessing the text field we're getting the text and we're
converting it to a string.
Phew.
Let's give it a go.
So now I'll put my name in there.
I can use the keyboard or type with the software keyboard which is very handy.
And then I'm going to click the button and there we go.
That's what we're after.
So we've got info and.
And if I wanted to only see that result I could just look for info in the search box then.
There we go.
So we're getting closer and closer to true interactivity here.
We can now get some information from the user rather than just letting them press a button.
Ok time for you to do something now.
And the app that I want you to create looks like this.
So it's pretty simple.
It's essentially a logon page for our app.
So it asks for a username and password.
Notice the password has a password type meaning that it displays dots rather than the letters themselves.
And then when you click log in the username and password will be displayed in the logs.
So that's what we're going for a whole new app.
Best of luck.
Go for it.
All right.
BABYLON Well here we go then I'm going to start a new project.
So file new project and this is going to be
textfield demo again.
Those will all be the defaults and we'll start with an empty activity and leave the activity names as
the default.
So as a reminder our aim here is to have to edit texts to text fields one for user name and one for
a password.
And then when we press the button both the user name and the password will be displayed in the Lokes.
So here we go.
I'm going to start by getting to activity main Daltex L.
Now you may have seen this message before.
Usually it just means that your product is still starting up still being created so they will get it
now looks great.
I'm going to start
by creating my text field so I'm going to get rid of my Hellewell message.
And then we'll have a plain text which I'll just make a little down from the top and I'll change the
width to fill parents and I'll give it a hint.
Use a name
and I'll give it an ID of use a name edit text that's exactly what it is.
Ok now I'm going to add a password and bonus marks if you did this.
We'll set the password to have a type of password
and the again will fail.
The parents
will change the hint to password.
And change the ID to password and it text.
And I'm going to capitalize that this time because now it's the second word in the name.
Great.
OK.
Now we just need a button
I'm going to drag that in underneath
and I'll change the text.
See logging
there we go.
And I'm going to just click run
so I can run it more quickly later.
And then while that's compiling I'm going to write my code in main activity.
Right.
So hopefully you're reasonably comfortable with this now.
We're going to write our code in the main activity class but not in the uncreate method.
And we're going to create a public void and
I'm going to call it Logan collect and as I type that I think I remember that I didn't actually add
an on click the button which obviously is very important so I'll select a button
and then go down an ad in logon click
on click
OK and log in clicked of course.
It's called by a view that is the button.
So it will create a value to represent that.
Not that we actually use it then our use.
Enter to add the view class code.
Now I need to get the content of my username and password edit texts.
So let's create an edit text using edit text with a capital E to represent my user name at a text and
then we're going to use find a view by idea again.
And we're going to look in resources dot IDs dot and then I call it something like use and I added text.
There it is.
Always use the auto prediction there.
Otherwise there's a good chance that your select one or miss type the ID or something and everything
will go horribly wrong.
And of course this returns a view I want it to be an added text.
So I put edit text with a capital G in front of it in parentheses.
Excellent.
So now we've got our user name at that text.
Now we just need out password added text
so this time I know I'm going to need to turn it into an edit text so I'll add that in first and then
find view by ID.
And I want results is ID dot password it.
Text
C-PAP.
So now I've got those to edit texts.
I just need to display their values in the logs.
So as you logged on I would enter again to add the log class to the import section up here you can see
we've now got logs we've got view and we've got added text as well.
So I'll use a name as the tag this time and then to get the contents of the username.
I use a name added text dot text dot to string and then a semi-colon
and then exactly the same thing for the password.
But this time we're going to use password edit text get text dot to string and that's it.
Let's see it in action.
So now we should find that when we click the logon button we see the username and password that the
user has entered.
In the logs.
So here we go.
I'll just use Rob as my username and password as my password and you can see that that comes up in dolt's
because we selected the password at it text type right thing.
Click log in.
And there we go.
Just as desired.
Username Rob password password.
Excellent.
So were very nearly then out.
We've got two of the three crucial steps to true interaction.
We can run some code using a button press and we can get some data from the user using edit text.
The last piece of the puzzle is to display some data to the user which we're going to do with something
called a toast in the next video.
See you there.